For this exercise, the specific sales funnel
you followed when making an online purchase will vary.
But here's an example of the main stages and the most common steps in such a funnel.
The first stage is awareness.
In awareness, the customer has a need and learns of a potential product for purchase.
Knowledge of the specific product can come from
searches about products to address a problem,
referral from a previous customer,
or via advertising, paid marketing.
For example, Nina has a dog that keeps destroying his toys.
So she searches on Google for toys for dog chewy,
seeing and clicking the add for DogToys.com and entering
DogToys.com are the steps she takes during the awareness stage.
The next stage is evaluation.
In evaluation, the customer decides whether they want to purchase a specific item.
In my example, Nina's evaluation steps includes searching DogToys.com
for extra tough toys and reading reviews of toys to find one strong enough for her puppy.
As part of the evaluation stage,
Nina also places the dog toys into the cart and heads to checkout.
Along the way, she's still considering whether this purchase is worth it,
so she remains in the evaluation stage.
The final stage is purchase.
When Nina enters her credit card information and pays for the toys to be shipped to her,
she leaves the final stage.
Nina is an example of a successful conversion in the sales funnel.